Support for another round comes from August a new kind of consulting company that helps organizations realize their
potential to make a meaningful dent in the world interested in doing this work drop them a line
today at W W W dot OG dot co slash another round.
That's another round.
Hi everyone I'm havin and welcome to another round of heaven
and they're
excited.
When my side about when we are excited he says today sees the return
of cherries he
just
said I
have seen your threats and demands on Twitter. I have heard you so work with and then the joke.
Also we're going to be talking to a really really interesting woman who's activists in
boxing Her name is Mary and. Honestly I can't even think about the things she thinks every
day she's a human rights activist and part of me doesn't
know what that means exactly in the other part of me knows that
it's really dangerous just an amazing story that I'm excited talk let's go
through
it but before
we get into it we have a little announcement. So our last show on April fourteenth at the
University of Michigan in Ann Arbor may be sold out but there will still be space available the
night of the show so we encourage everyone to show up early doors open at six
thirty like six twenty five just to
be sure that Marley was Harmon is going to do for you.
Anyways come early guys you know I don't know I said why
you're always late to things perpetually late for more information check us out on Twitter
that's what a dot com slash another
M.
we think. A lot of angry tweets once again because I had been joking a while. Because what I meant to
do try to seize John's
time.
Hopefully it won't be all right.
Set an expectation
to. Please lower them all. OK. It is just your
reading already. So it's late when
that right.
There's a man we'll call him Jerome because one that he's driving down the
road and he's speeding or this late. He's drive he just like the traffic so we speed down
this road at night cop sees
I'm Officer Bob right
by the road on a siren and he pulls. He pulls your mom over
need you give them the Lansky you can use their you know I pulled you over God like no can
imagine me as I do you know how fast you were
going and he says yeah I was going about ninety five eighty but my god.
But he's like but I have a good reason I just robbed a bank and I've got to
get out. I had to get away before the cops came and
the cop is like you did you just admit to a robbery and he was
like yeah I got the I got the loot in the backseat and he's
like What are
you kidding me he was like OK you got me and then the backseat was actually in the trunk
and then the guys I
think I'm going to need you
to pop the trunk for me and also I'm going to need your license their registration was OK as well as you know I
have a loaded gun
in both the trunk and in my glove
compartment Jurong
Black want to get to the black. Because he got
guns in the truck and in the glove box me Mr Roemer fair. That is a fair
question to ask you. You just made that up.
I didn't. I'm just worried about heroes.
Said is that I was about as like I do not believe what does happen this man has committed an armed
robbery which is the villain. Of which is a felony that on this industry Tonight bombshell the starting
is guess he's OK. There you can have become of me but first I want you to stay in your car. I need to call for backup.
I was Bob's on the radio right cos a back up there's a SWAT team there's like
a you gotta low early thing and
got helicopter like. And like they say around
the car they got guns pointed at him and I was the why did they need the helicopter we know where he is
now can't. Yeah cause. Actually we do Mom he does like to make a scene and so they've
got him surrounded right. And then they
start to ease drama of the car and they pull him over to like this have their own knees and down they're like OK sir stay
here while we search your car they go and they search the car.
The car the look in the glove box is no good in glove bought a little back seat there's no stolen money
no
selling where you really
look in the trunk the trunk is empty there like a spare and like a crowbar in it and so
another cop walks up to Jerome and that like so you. We were told that you just robbed
like a bank or something you got goods but we didn't find any of the stuff in there
and the man said yeah and I bet that's like a man and cops that I was be
do but
OTOH Shas so much. I know that I'm not about to you
know build your own cases not black because he did have a situation to
live depressing
was the way to bring down the job. I mean the fact that
he was so bold to even do that right I mean
yesterday was. Yeah I think that was like an intro. I think it will remember
Larry right
or wrong. Look at Obama's America.
We're
going to take a quick break go pay some bills etc I guess on refills. And when
we come back you're going to hear from Madea Maharajah who is an incredible human rights
activist support for another round comes from August a new kind
of consulting company that's starting a revolution in the way organizations work from helping leaders and.
Race changed to creating a culture where teens can thrive. Which brings us to our first and probably
last installment of Master workplace
theater Tracy and I will take a real life workplace situation and transform it
into super
dramatic unnecessarily dramatic radio
voice
this week on Master workplace theater we find truth in a small meeting with her team members her
coworkers family stands up and presents an
idea. And that's why I think all environmental statistics going forward should
sync up with Marsh's team before going live
to
family that's the best idea I think I've had my seventy six years at this company.
Thanks boss. Wait wait wait Stanley you know good and well that was my idea.
I don't know what you're talking about Tracey damaged daily. Yes you
do. Listen if you're
out of sight so much you would not hear there are more tables to flip or this one came from
bloody Stanley is this true. Did you steal this idea
from Tracy.
Maybe I did. Maybe I'm bad real bad maybe I'm on here. Maybe
I maybe I just don't care anymore maybe
some security. Wait wait no no wait. What is
it
Tracy Stanley I'm flattered that you like mad enough to feel
it but we should make a point to keep communication open across the team. OK now let's
shake hands ever get
this ever happened. Sure thing put it there
partner
tune in next time to see what happens after thousands of volts of nuclear energy travel from family
the evil robot into Tracy's body here on Master workplace Peter thank
you for listening.
If your passionate about revolutionizing the way companies operate and you love to get about things
like the future of work and what makes things awesome get in touch with Agas a consulting firm for the twenty
first century learn more at. OG that calls last another round that a huge
eat that the old Flash another round.
So we are very excited to have Mary Our home was in the studio right now she's a
human rights activist the co-director of the Gulf Center for Human Rights. She currently lives in
Denmark and is also a Bahraini citizen who played an instrumental role in the protests taking
place in Bahrain in February of two thousand and
eleven was probably one of the smaller Arab Spring countries that people didn't pay attention
to but those protests triggered a government response of widespread
extrajudicial killings arrest torture and more to suppress voices for
reform so that when something we should be paying attention to and despite being in exile she's emerged
as as a leading voice for human rights and political reform and behaving in the Gulf
region. Welcome to the show. Thank you you're known all over the world as
this incredible activist. But we want to start with baby Miriam.
What were you like as a kid I was very
stubborn very hard headed. I gave my sisters a very difficult time.
My older sisters one of whom was currently in prison actually were responsible for taking us to school.
I always made sure we were late. I would find any fence on the way to school
and rumbling through it.
I guess it was a way because I was very small in size I felt like I had to make up for it
in personality cells pretty much what I did. Where did you grow up
and Copenhagen until I was fourteen and then we moved to the high in two thousand and one then Mark is pretty
white right.
Yeah. And we grew up in halter which is right outside of Copenhagen and we were
the only brown family the entire town that like I mean traumatic.
I mean I was told pretty much every day to go
back to where I come from I mean even as a child that's something we heard over and over again.
I watched my mother not being allowed to get on the bus lines.
If we walk into a store we go followed around as if they know that we're going to steal something so
things like that pretty much were you very aware of not being white like as a kid
doesn't Lee I mean we grew up in a small behind me society if I can put it that way we were
twenty one behind families in Copenhagen and women every
Saturday. Oh yeah. It was a nightmare but now that I think about it you know I think that I was
actually
a good thing because we held onto our identity and I think that one of the
reasons that I actually decided to wear the headscarf was because I felt like it
was me standing up to the Danish society me saying that I know
that you don't want me to wear this so I'm going to wear it just because I can and so it
was the headscarf was more of a statement than anything else it's also helped me to learn
about myself I mean wearing the headscarf forced put me in a situation
where I was forced to explain where I was from and who I was constantly
because people always ask you why you were a scarf and why you dress that way and I'd have to actually be able
to present a valid argument. And so that actually helped me growing up to learn
about myself about my culture about my religion where I came from why we did things
now when I went back to the high and I realize that it was a whole different
issue and definitely not what I had grown up to believe it was was I
was one of the things that I realized after I moved back to behind is
that Muslims on the outside of the Muslim countries are actually a lot more
Islam make the people inside the Muslim countries. So what it means is
that because you're like I explained because you grew up in societies where you are forced to
explain yourself over and over again and to understand why you do things the way you do them.
It also teaches you about religion and so you actually read you actually go and find out why you
do things the way you do because you have to explain it but when I when we move back to behind
I realize that that wasn't the case over there. I mean yes there were people who understood but generally people did
things because they grew up thinking that they're supposed to do it because I was part of society.
I remember. One of like my most vivid memories of one of the first things that happened when I started to acting was
behind his and behind
was they were shocked that I prayed that I wear the headscarf and that I didn't have a million boyfriends
on the
mark and so this like this entire scenario for me was I was very struck by
its I didn't really know how to deal with it either. Did you like living very.
No I was one of those teenagers who was always very angry. So I was you know
I love. I love listening to Tupac me against the
world and so I always felt like I had
been a huge or really bad decision to go to behind from Denmark
as much as I hated the more growing up when I moved to behind I felt like I didn't belong
there either because we grew up in the society the community that we grew up in Denmark.
We were taught that behind was home. That's where we belong. That's where we're and we go there that's
our people that's where you feel like you're now at home so going to behave and finding out that I
didn't belong there either was a huge shock for me right and going to high school
and being called the dame by all the other behaviors through the child.
So where do you consider home like where is home for you. I'm not sure I
mean I guess the melodramatic thing to say would be the airport since I'm from the
month but I'm not going to say that I'm not sure I think that the one place
where I've actually been and that I'm not just saying this because we're doing a show in New York
was actually the only place I've been where I actually felt like people didn't look at me like I stood
out was Brooklyn also employees right could walk around and feel like
well everyone's The front is a place where I could actually fit and yeah but otherwise I don't
think that I feel like anywhere really is home. So you have a very grown up.
Job like being a human rights activists is a very adult grown up thing when you were
little before you knew what that was before you knew what that meant what did you want to be when you grew
up both my parents are activists and we grew up in an activist home and.
You know one of the things that our parents would tell us before we went to sleep
is you need to ask yourself a question every night which is what have I done today
that makes this world a better place and if you can name one thing the new voice that a day that's heavy
for some and so this is something I mean that we grew up with and we
constantly heard about the struggle we constantly heard about
because my uncle was a political prisoner for seven years and behind and he
was severely
tortured and so we grew up hearing all these stories about the atrocities that were being committed and
behind and so I think that it was always a part of us and when we moved back to behind my father was in and out of
prison I watched him getting beaten up by riot police several
times and so it was it was always part of the family it was
something that we lived with and it wasn't much of a choice that being said
I grew very disenchanted with the human rights work to be honest during from two thousand and one to two
thousand love
and I watched my father getting beaten up I watched him you know trying to organize
and trying to build a grassroots human rights
movement and I saw how they would be about twelve to twenty people going out to protest and getting beaten up
and thrown in prison and nobody cared I mean when I talk about it with anyone in behind they say yell but your
father is a
troublemaker and so I used to go up to my father and say I don't understand why you're doing us like
what's the point you can change things for people if they don't want to change you can't force people to
want human rights or democracy and he used to always smile and say One day you'll understand.
It was only in two thousand and eleven when I was there for the uprising and I watched
people getting shot and killed and I documented those
cases that's when I had a newfound respect for the behind the people because
I suddenly understood what it meant to go through an experience like that like people
had in the one nine hundred ninety S. during the last uprising and so suddenly I understood why people had become
so apolitical in that sense with that they didn't want things to go back to the
one nine hundred ninety S.
So for people who may not know about the Bahraini gun. A man or monarchy or
anything can you give us a little bit of background about what it was like before two thousand and eleven and then what it was like
during the so-called Arab
Spring so Button's an absolute monarchy which means that the king and the ruling families above
the Constitution it means that they can do whatever they want and there's no one counts ability there's a lot of
corruption there in complete control politically and
economically and so behind which is an oil rich country
has poverty and has high rates of
unemployment and so when people went to the streets in two thousand and eleven the
main demands was a constitution that was agreed upon by the people and the
monarchy and that they would have basic fun and fundamental Civil and Political Rights.
So this was the main demand of the protests in two thousand love and now after it's people started getting killed on
the streets for making those demands it shifted to well the monarchy needs to step down.
Can you describe what it was like then because I feel like the Arab Spring happened and I kind
of I saw the emotional swell but I felt very disconnected
from
it I thought for listeners who may not know what is Arab Spring. So the Arab Spring I don't really like the
term Arab Spring but so the Arab Spring is the uprisings that happen in
the Middle East and North Africa demanding political change and fundamental
human
rights that started in Tunisia when Boise set himself on fire
after having
been slaughtered by a police officer he was a vendor selling things on the streets and he got slapped
and because of that he set himself on fire he basically reached a point where he just couldn't take it anymore.
This is one of the things that we continuously go back to is that these revolutions rubout dignity.
It was about people who are living for such a long time in situations
where their dignity was stripped away from
them and you don't understand what that means until you've actually tried it until
you're in a situation where you know that a police officer can come up to
you slap you beat you push you around see whatever they want and you can do absolutely
nothing about it and this is what then cause the uprising in Tunisia which led to.
The president fleeing the
country and then of course ignited the uprising the revolution in
Egypt and then behind was actually the third and then Yemen
and Syria. So I grew up in Ethiopia. Well I was born in Europe and I moved to America. It's very
hard to describe to people what it's like growing up under a government where phrases like the walls
have ears. Is incredibly important to learn very
young What was your relationship like to even discussing
politics because of the way my father isn't because of the way my mother raised us I was
a really used to having much of a filter which is definitely something
that you need to learn to have I mean during the last trip that I made to behind when I
got arrested.
I remember just having to teach myself or reteach myself to remember
what I can and cannot say specially while I was in prison and I did make a couple of the
things that I could have paid a huge price
for OK so let's get into that yeah. So many questions right give us
your short timeline of what happened during the Bahraini revolution and your involvement in
your family's involvement.
So in two thousand and eleven I was actually living in London an exile I was under threat of for us so I had to leave
the country. OK Explain all that. OK so the
actual crackdown started in two thousand and ten it was August August thirteenth there were a few people coming back
from London who were political activists and who had gone there to speak about torture at the House of
Lords and they got arrested upon arrival now I had just come back from the US Actually I
was teaching up probably in broad University in
Providence and I couldn't get a job because of my last name because of my dad's work behind
and one person is a humorous defender the entire family pays the price and so because I couldn't get
a job I started volunteering for the behind Center for Human Rights given that the crackdown has started and people were
getting
arrested and because of that I became under threat a for us and so in September two thousand and ten
I had to leave they were they told me I had to leave the country within twenty four
hours and not tell anyone that I was leaving because I could have gotten arrested
so basic. I packed a bag and left the country and I don't know if I could go back but in January two thousand and love
and once the once Tunisia in Egypt
happened we were like This is our turn you know like this is the time for behind as
well I did it is don't understand how you find the strength and the
energy. So I'm not going to lie there were times that were pretty difficult the most
so the reason why I went back to behind was because my father was on hunger strike and I was in
Denmark at that time and I met with the hunger strike experts My father had been on several hunger strikes before one
of which nearly cost him his life when he went on hunger strike for hundred ten
days and the hunger strike expert basically told me every day that your dad is alive. The day
we didn't know we had and he's basically a risk of going into
cardiac arrest or basically going to sleep and not waking up again at any
time and because he's been on several hunger strikes. I was not
able to get media attention to this case I mean the first hunger strike a lot of media attention there was
huge diplomatic international
response but because he'd been on several hunger strike some Only nobody was really interested in the
story anymore. What do you feel like
is the power. Or the philosophy behind of the hunger strike. I feel like it's a very
specific
tool. It is the idea is that you are stripped of
basically every tool that you had as a human rights activist all those things all those tools that you
usually have are taken away from you so you use the last tool that you do have and that's
your own
body and it does make a difference because at the end of the day the specially for someone like my father was seen as.
As a leader in the community for him to die in prison what have you been a
huge problem for the government and that's why they ended up force feeding him after the hundreds on the hunger
strike and keeping him alive because they wanted to make sure he didn't
die. And so that's why I decided to go back to when I knew that if I went back to behind whether I
was allowed and to go see my father on the left or whether I was arrested. Either way that would
get media attention you know the daughter was going back to see her father in
prison and so I loved within twenty four hours of that meeting with the hunger strikes. Birth and
I was arrested upon arrival in the
airports there waiting for me right outside the airplane door. I pretended not to
see them and walked right back right by and there like Merriam and I continued walking there like oh how large and then I turned
around I was like yes.
Oh the red.
I mean I know a prison so far not going have a
bit. I don't have enough time left but I mean everything that I
know of prison first
of all is like American prisons and secondly it's from like shows made for entertainment so
like an orange the new black What is it really like and also where did you ever
laugh in prison like where ever like funny moments where do you ever feel like light enough to be like
ha ha. This is some the NAB and I can like have a funny
response Joe definitely I mean I treated prison like I was in a basketball training
camp. I was around. Yellow I would walk
around singing in the hall was you know I made a lot of friends with pretty much everyone who was in
the prison even the guards who were respectful and nice I was very nice. Actually the day
that I got released one of the prison guards came up to me and she's like you know so let me start crying like a little ridiculous.
So I thought well like the whole point
of you know going to prison when you do what we do is you know one of the things you
understand is that living and laughing and being able to take
on prison with that
attitude is part of the struggle when you go in there and you're not able to laugh
and you're not able to sing and you're not able to have that kind of strong attitude. You've already
lost it sends a message that you can put us in Britain but it's not going to break
us part of our struggle. So you seem very disciplined and specific
about your
activism and I was watching the documentary we are giant which listeners can
watch on Netflix. If they're
curious and your father and your sister were talking about how they both
read routes and prison by Alex Haley and how much they thought about.
Like the. African-American tradition of protest.
They talked about how the civil rights movement was a thing they often look to what are
your model of protest.
I read when I was twelve years old and it's one of the stories that
stuck and we've seen.
I mean just about every movie there is about the African-American struggle with my parents I
mean when armistice came out my parents you know got tickets so we went to the cinema and we watched
it and one of the things about my parents is that when we watch movies like that it wasn't just about. You know us going
and watching the movie we would actually have a conversation about it afterwards and they would always you know
encourage us to go and find books and read about it to learn
more and so this the struggle for civil rights in the United States but also
other struggles have been very instrumental in the way that we do our work as
well like what else. I mean so there's the South African struggle of
course and one of the things that I think is very powerful about the South African struggle is that in a
way from an international perspective it's similar to behind because behind also is a
country where because they're you know allies with Saudi Arabia and their allies with the United Kingdom
the United States. It means there's just no international accountability for human rights
crimes and so South South Africa was the same way and it took a you
know a struggle from the inside but also from the outside for apartheid to
stop in the documentary. There's footage of you confronting Hillary Clinton
is amazing to watch it looks like I don't even know it wasn't some fancy gallops that
you and. It doesn't show what happens after
you start talking to her what
happened. So it was the U.S. Islamic world forum. You know the younger brown
people were placed all the way in the back of the room. So there was actually quite a distance for me to go to get
to Hillary Clinton at that point to begin with I was sitting there and thinking my father at that point and
my two brothers in law and my uncle were all subjected to inforce disappearance.
This is in two thousand and eleven this was in two thousand and eleven we weren't even sure that my father was alive.
The Scituate. It was really bad and because he was taken away unconscious they had beat him in front of my family
until he was unconscious and then took him away. And so I was sitting there and her concern was right in front
of me and I was sitting there thinking well what can I do you know like she's right there and I
need to do something and so in the beginning I was thinking well maybe I should just get up and start
shouting something while she's talking and then I was like no that's not professional I probably will never get another meeting in
the U.S. if I do that. Plus it will look good for my activism in the future so I decided against it
but
then after she finished her speech and she was coming off the stage of course people went up to her to say hello
and so I started you know running across the room towards her because we're all the way in the
back and the old shouting and the secretary and secretary. What I didn't
notice is that there was actually Secret Service right behind
me than I was who was running the
Cuellar allows
actually very lucky that I reached clear Hillary Clinton before they reached me because that would have been a whole
other story
new so I got to her
and you know I grabbed her hand to say hello and she was going to pull back but I grabbed her hand and I basically gave her
a run through of the train and like one point five minutes it was a great read it would agree
that
it was
torture
and she just smiled and then she said thank you for
coming and she walked away and now since then I've gotten uninvited
from an event that she was at what do you mean. So I was invited to to this event where she was
going to be and they were inviting woman from the Middle East and across the world and young women activists to be
meet with
her aroud Right exactly and I received an e-mail there like we'd love
to invite you blah blah and I was like Yeah of course I'd love to come and then I receive another e-mail saying
we decided to go a different
route but only the family invited. So how much
time had elapsed.
From confrontation to you being an invited to this
thing the uninviting happened in two thousand and fourteen. I met her in two thousand and eleven.
So they're still
they feel the pain and I'm a little worried about what that's going
to mean for my activism in the U.S. if she gets elected president. I feel like most
of my questions are about like feelings and emotions because I I describe myself twice a day
it's like one big walking emotion I'm an emotional
legs but like how like how do you do it.
It's a very long struggle and I wouldn't even describe it as
being a pill I'd say it's a mountain. Do you feel
like the arc of the moral universe bends towards justice.
While. I'm not sure
I would like to have hope in humanity I would like to believe that as human
beings we tend to move more towards justice than in justice.
But honestly after five years of doing what I do I'm not so sure about that anymore. I
mean I've met with diplomats who told me to my face that they don't care about human rights they don't care about
children getting shot and killed and behind. I met diplomats who I would sit there are next
and explain to them describe to them to torture that people are being put
through the fact that we have children and prison and behind with their
mothers and will basically couldn't care less because it just doesn't fit into their
economic interest and one of the things that I learned early on in my
job was that I needed to know my audience and so when I meet people from the military I don't go
in there and try to appeal to their humanitarian side. You know I have to go in and present an argument
of why human rights are important for their security
interests and so just having to put myself in the position of having to you know.
Remove myself from those emotions of being part of the struggle of having my family
in prison and having to sit there and be like well I know you don't care about human rights but you know
for your security interests.
It actually is better if you have a if you have stability
and when right away. How do
you keep moving when when you're disillusioned.
My mother.
So if I ever feel down or I feel like you know what's the point anymore and
I feel that a lot. All I need to do is talk to my mom and she's like met him like this is
not about you. There's a struggle there's a cause much bigger than you it's not about individuals.
This is about entire country an entire
region and if you think you're tired think about these families who have had their children killed Think
about the people who are sitting in prison cells. You're sitting in Europe and so you have absolutely no excuse to
be giving up hope of these people to continue struggling. You have no excuse to give up but it's also something that
my father told
me. Before I left behind when before he got arrested which was if
you want to be a human rights defender you have to understand
that you can't do it because you're expecting results. If you expect results you're going to
lose hope you're not going to be able to
continue. You become a human rights defender because it's the right thing to do.
You're doing the right thing because you need to do the right thing because the right thing needs to be done
because people's rights need to be fought for because imagine if everyone stopped doing that even if it doesn't
change things for the better. How much worse would it be if human rights defenders decided to no
longer defend human rights.
But I don't know why it's a lot like at the same time you're human and humans get tired
like when you were the king. My parents say like Sorry no go ahead because I'm not going to say the
same thing when my parents are like children are
starving in Africa. Yes Yes But first of all I
was yeah I was
literally But yeah
like there are times when I'm like and I mean like my problems and I know and I recognize I like this
big compared like the problems that you're fighting obviously I mean it's out well for most of it's all relative
it's true but like when I have like friends who are going through it like example I had a
friend who was like going through some stuff and she put a status on Facebook has been
saying and somebody responded and was like well it could always be worse and I got so mad. So
upset because like that's not the point he's allowed to get hired he's allowed to be disillusioned he's allowed to
like sit down and like feel for herself for a
moment. Do you allow yourself those moments you ever get resentful at like the
feeling or being told that you know like you could be so much
worse. I don't
know resentful of being told that because I do also get told to take care of myself I mean both my
parents whenever they talk to me
the first question they ask is What was the last time you went to the cinema one of the last time you went out see friends
are you you know going out having fun and so on and so that's something that's also very important to them and my
father has told me time and time again that if you want to be able to do this long term you need to take
care of yourself because you can think about the care of others if you don't take care of
yourself that being said. Like I said as I was when I was a child I
was very stubborn and hard headed and so I don't exactly Wilson's
wife and I think it's largely related to the issue
of survivor's guilt that feeling
of you know I survived when others did not and so taking time off.
You just feel so guilty that it's not even worth it. It's not even worth taking time off
because you feel so bad about yourself knowing that well in this moment
I could have written a statement and this you know hour that I took off I could have done something to hope
someone finally enough being in prison. Those three weeks was the only time that I didn't feel
that way it was actually kind of like a mini vacation.
Oh wow I don't want to make it sound really Paul because I was
in a sense you
know was the only time in these five years that I didn't really feel guilty anymore.
So how do you think or yourself.
Do you think you know.
I think the the answer to that would be no I work pretty much most of
the time I mean I you know I do go out with
friends from time to time I do hang out with friends but usually like even when
I'm all friends I'm on my phone I'm checking emails I'm writing I'm you know following up but it's also
it's very much related to the anxiety. Something of missing out on something
because when my father was arrested I found out from Twitter and I was sitting on
a train going from New York to
Providence when I found out and just
that feeling of being so far away but also knowing that the only thing
that
links me to the situation there is my phone and so there is the things I did he
related to not being on the Internet and not having my phone around that not checking my phone because
I know that any bad news is always going to come through that device right. And so I have to be
constantly connected. I want to cycle back really
quickly to your fam. Documentary that you were in we
are giants is this is a you know with our Also there with
you and she's currently in prison. Yes and she is either pregnant or
just or has a new baby.
Yes So she was arrested on the fourteenth of March with her fifteen month old son.
Wow I don't know why would expect like humanitarian
concern right.
I mean you would think that generally if you say well there's a fifteen month old baby and then with his mother
who's being held on freedom of expression and parents will see Asian charges that people would care but it actually
doesn't doesn't work that way. So tell us about like what landed your sister in jail.
So she has five cases against her she's in total I think been charged with thirteen or fifteen cases.
She's been imprisoned I think up to ten or
eleven times I've lost track ten or eleven times
now she's been beaten she's been shot in the leg she's been pretty
much everything but my favorite story of Dana was she was on
trial for ripping a picture of the king which of course is a huge deal in
Boston and you can get up to seven years in prison for insulting the king so
reading a picture of him falls under that.
And so she was on trial for ripping a picture of the king and she basically was in a position
where she was boycotting the court but she knew that if she didn't go to court she would get arrested anyway if you boycott
the court you get picked up from your
home so she decided to go to court which was surprising to all of us now of course we all knew that. There
was something going on but of course enough doesn't really share with us what she plans on doing because she's
always worried that we're going to tell her not to do it and so I suddenly my phone starts ringing and I'm
like what's going on and that's the lawyer and he's
like yes osing up got up in court in front of the judge who's also a member of the ruling family.
Gave him a speech about how she's a free woman born to free parents she was eight months pregnant
at that point and how she told him how her son when he was born whether in a prison cell or not will be
a free baby boy as
well and then she took out a picture of the king ripped it and placed it in front of the
judge so much. As like this she made O'Connor ripped
the picture of
the pope unfairly like that only a lot more for it.
My analysis is that she was arrested because of my work. They can't get to me so they want to
after her her sentences are definitely related to her work and to
her activism and the one person protests that she stages and so on but I think that the
timing of the arrest right now was definitely a message to
me I'm trying to imagine being in your shoes which I was the I cannot because I'm a very
spoiled American who lives on her bubble but like your sister and your nephew are in jail
like what I just feel like I feel so helpless at this point is there anything
that you can do to try to help get her out or do you just have to wait. It's just a
waiting game.
I do feel helpless and that's one of the things that I discovered all early on in two thousand
love him when my father was arrested was the feeling of helplessness is even worse than
the feeling of fear and was saying open my nephew right now knowing that they're sitting in a prison
cell knowing that they were given blankets that are stained and dirty knowing
that my nephew cannot even eat the prison food and
they're not allowing my family to bring the baby food from the outside.
You know all these things because I've been in prison I know what prisons like so just imagining him in there you
know a fifteen month old baby who's looking at the ants on the floor and thinking it's a game right.
That definitely it breaks my heart. So the way that I deal with it
is of course we try to raise attention so I've been spending the past couple of like you since you got
arrested what I've been doing is working on statements you know contacting State
Department
contacting the missions here in New York at the U.N. you know talking to the media. Pretty much trying
to do everything I
can to raise pressure on her case because that's how I got out of prison. I got out of
prison because it became more costly for the behind the government to keep me in prison than to let me go.
And that's what we need to do for is a you know we need to make it more costly for the behind the government to keep her
and I'm also currently thinking about going back to
Holland and I'm sentenced to one year in prison and I've sent Yeah. And I have five
other pending cases one of
which is under the anti-terrorism law which can carry a life sentence.
So I know that going back this time probably means I'm not going to get back
out but at the same time if I feel like I've reached a point
where there's nothing I can do on the outside anymore
that you know is just not going to cut it. I won't be able to be you know it's Europe
or the U.S. and knowing that my sister and my nephew are in prison so I'd rather go be in prison with
them than be on the outside
helpless and my hope is that if I do decide to go back that me being in prison will
actually get them released because it would be too much pressure on the government for them to have
all of us in prison at the same time and it would look better for them to release a woman and her baby than to release
me. So my hope is that if I do decide to go back and I feel like working on the outside has
become useless that it will result in them being
released
for a dramatic change in tone a huge shift a very sharp shift
in tone. Now as our fun. Rapid Fire segment which you're already familiar with
I don't have to explain the title cop you know.
What is the last song that you think. That's not my name
please
take a copy say see that's one this is also my mind
and not mine even though they're assuming that you have games on your phone.
I'm not alone here you got cable your phone. Like I have my cousins lately.
The only thing I'm sure everybody understands you've got day. So you know what your favorite game
right now only about Need for Speed who feels a little bit like
a
raisin Yeah definitely Then you like you move your phone to model cars oh yeah really cool.
I used to play this farm game where you like buy stuff and you farm shit like
seeds also That's like I'm really bad at the likes games of resources
I like a result of collecting here is really
cool but then I saw all the prison guards playing it so it wasn't
as much fun as the real
downer. Tell us about the
body's growth that you learn to make in prison.
I have to know the first thing. OK so in prison. There's very
limited things that you're allowed to have so there were a bunch
of woman in prison with me who were basically charged with prostitution. They
were
Moroccan and so they showed me how you can actually make body scrub
and oil for your hair out of like the materials we did happen prison. So
basically they would take sugar. So in the prison. Because it was a temporary prison facility where you go
before your sentence.
There was a kitchen with very limited stuff but there was so they would take sugar and they
would put it with water and
honey and then they would put it in the fridge and then they take it out of the fridge and use a
scrub that is very similar to a script that I still make to this day you know like a really really
good script there's just like added Nobody cares about this is
me and coconut oil and like if you like a little thinner. The likes
of essential oil that's a good grip recipe I heard you also got your
hair done.
I
mean there are some corn.
Well there are I mean I was one of the women with us and
friends like I said I made friends with pretty much everyone in the prison and one of them was from
the
Opiah And so the girl
had and so she actually made you know to my parents' cornrows
which was really cool I mean it was really sad because there were no murders and prison. Oh I
think I felt like I was really
cool.
I'm sorry some of
us what it is
why would you give black Lab matter. Protesters. I
think first of all it's very important for different struggles
to reach without outside of their borders and I think that that's
something that we learned the hard way in the Middle East which
is you know there is no struggle that is by itself. You need to be able
to reach across the border and work together learn from each other share strategies
because there's always going to be something that you didn't know about that you can learn from
others and so I remember when the protests actually started in Ferguson I was one of the people that was
tweeting advice about what to do with tear gas when actually got picked up by the New York Times
the tweets that I had written along with actually fellow activists from Palestine was also tweeting about A Million Little
Pieces and so we were very aware of the different struggles that happen and we try
to give an input when we can and I would actually
be very interested in meeting with activists from Blackledge matter I'm very like it's
a movement that I admire and respect very much and I think it's something that's very
important especially at this time and I think that they can definitely learn from
our struggles and we can learn from theirs as well and so that's something that I would definitely like love to
see happen that's for us to actually reach across borders and learn from each other.
Your eyeliner is always on point your life. What you needed it
was my sis's of actually talk and eyeliner
So I mean what can
the Mac. I think
those really the notion
L O
O is a liquid is it a pencil. So it's liquid pencil.
Oh yeah I'm
listening to but you also
have to make sure that the tip is very thin because if you use those thick ones they
always go wrong but if it's then you can actually decide how thick you want to make it like the bending
on how big your eyes
are seem really really bad was like really thin tip stuff. Yeah. This
is hard not only the hard revolutions are hard.
We hear that you hate your wicked media page.
I do.
Well one because it's pretty outdated. Too because I don't
know what made it which is not the reason why I hate it but like I don't know it. Yeah
like someone just tweeted me one day and I was like oh that's interesting but the
main reason why I hate is because my
friends every time we meet someone you decide to pull up by we can you know.
Can you please not
like this doesn't need to be home introduce the people your friends are trolls
waiters and yes. So if tomorrow there was
world peace and you no longer had to be a human rights activist. What would you
do I would retire. I would like buy a little hut in the middle of
nowhere with no internet connection.
And just you know like just live out my days there. I think I'd probably get bored that's like three days on leave but you
know I think I can last there for a couple of years. But I mean
generally I think I really love training before I got into human rights I used to be a
teacher and I also used to train students on leadership skills and it
was a lot of fun it was something that
I loved doing well on that beautiful
No I was the suppressing.
Thank you so much for stopping by pleasurable when we're going to learn. Yes facts.
Where can people find your work does Lance
whatever summary Mahajan I mean R Y M L K W A J for a
long name. I think that's too much and I mean you can always if you Google my name you'll get tons
of interviews and videos and stuff like that and you know integrate with a P.D. a page.
Thanks for stopping by Thank you my
pleasure
trace we've been around for I'm really excited for this because I've been around
for Al Sharpton on sorry one year. Let me clarify house why and why why
you know people have
their thoughts and opinions on Al Sharpton and you know I know the he's pretty
controversial figure is now with is around is about to go. OK I love Al
Sharpton because he can't
pronounce anything. So he had a show and it was N.B.C.
for a short time so much more confusing.
Why are you like the protester in the protests that are
covering and also covering the protests. Right right so he covered it. Yeah how
much time a conflict
of interest yeah that's the thing that anyway will away about Al Sharpton about but it
was so fun to watch because on the show he was definitely just like a
local event. And he's like yelling
about celebrities pronouncing the name was all wrong he called him a car dash
cam could do
she is like I said may
remember How do you not know him by then you never had a
saying if you've never seen any bits and pieces of Al Sharpton show.
Don't go watch actual clips of it go watch an
ethanol with Kenan Thompson as Al Sharpton. It's
exactly like that we like.
Yet I also know what you should do there the video on the Internet Scott Ashok
devices the teleprompter all know and is just
a superset of his best moments pronounced in everything he print
he pronounces the g at the in the Rush Limbaugh's name every time he says it. And so I
was the talks about my last so every time is a Rush Limbaugh
August Rush Limbaugh August. Rush Limbaugh
the Rush Limbaugh watching Limbaugh Rush Limbaugh Show rush.
Lombards hold the broom go out just go in your mile yesterday and Tony.
And Tony mean girl you Jim could dodge Jim and the Republican
chairman around and by Al Sharpton in the endless moments of Internet laughter that he has brought into my life
I would like to buy
around for pure heroin Lords
album I should have learned that sentence differently. I thought you were the best
assessment going on here that this was a fairly low intervention. I really did not think that sentence.
I love lard.
She's so great. This is her album her debut album from twenty thirteen and I
remember when she first came out everyone is like who's this like John girl from New
Zealand of all places. Well she said yeah well yeah yeah but she had
this like incredible
powerful voice and everyone's like Who has she has and then she really blew up and
it made me so happy because I'm never on the first wave of my musician
friends but you get to the hips there. I've been listening to her.
I don't know what it is about Lorde
but she makes me feel my age. Like she lets
me enjoy it whereas my mom has always
like chastise me like act my age and I I feel like I've heard it all my life but
I still don't really know what that means because I feel like what she's trying to say is
like make more mistakes and don't take yourself so seriously breaker for me sometimes I do
that all the time you know. I don't think we've
got to see it but something about Ward's
music really makes me like live in the
moment.
When
you
put Also she like the best celebrity like this
new best case scenario for what a celebrity can be.
She's like vocal when she wants to be she's funny she's waiting she claps back.
Yes she does not stand for anyone's bullshit health as an apology as like oh if he has a lawyer.
She'll make fun of you living where there is one time she
liked we did that Kim card Ashim. Mom.
That's all when the Internet went crazy yeah. I really like
the old got me.
But anyways I just really appreciate the energy she brings to the world and all
her lip the game is always online and also Also I love that she
does not look like a traditional pretty girl when she dances.
Laura gets like. Possessed by the music and I fucking love it you know her miss me of the
human
and I don't know if he and I will remember who handrail you know what he has a good
good so blue control make some faces when he thing known
and Jennifer Holliday who popularized song
and I'm tellin you blue gander I was asked about it once and she was like I don't
look pretty when I sing because singin is not a pretty
like Alright melting like Song of the villains in emotion so why am I going to be concerned
with like looking cute. Bob and I write
music and what I'm asking is yeah there's no delicacy to sing it's a
straight shot of Lord our Lord and Savior
large.
We
didn't you know that was an incredible conversation. It was a journey. We had jokes
we had despair and hope we want to do a big sharp unmodern for
coming through. Yes
yes shot to the PA I am
glad you improve every
week every on live T.V. I wouldn't. I would you
write that I thought in front of everyone.
This episode was produced by Eleanor Kagan with editorial oversight from General I spare MN
and production help from Julia for line and make Kramer big thanks to Paul restore
our Go Studio.
Thank you to our fancypants musician friends Jean Grey will follow her
on Twitter edging
breezy into the I will of the Almighty Tanya Morgan you can follow him on Twitter at
Don will thank you to heaven on Glad you with this shot at
the Tracy
bookie McRoberts Oh have we said our Twitter handles and well I feel like we
haven't shot a broken but poverty Internet legend bomb. And what a
legend Shad up to have annoyance on Twitter and Snap Chat and other things. If for
some reason you haven't subscribed to the
newsletter only now what are you doing is so good it is honestly great to stand up for the news let it
go to put the dot com slash another round slash newsletter so you can get happiness and fun
times enjoy in your email
inbox once a week. You're welcome. Also be sure to check out the seat of the pack as
like the Taylor show in Internet Explorer hit us on the
but when I had another round on Facebook where also another round
e-mail is another around and see that if you like the show right on i Tunes. If
you don't like the show maybe do a little introspection and figure out what's
going on what's going on there and we all read about you also we're on
Spotify even a lab podcast on one of the new it's a little bit my
coat check it out we coming up in a way a little look at
the comma shrink the monitor take me as I am. Oh my
God drinking water. Take a while ago really
Manuel into a mistake Oh well let's go look up
like right now bed back.
I
would like to buy around
for a always Tracy thing and now if I didn't
think it was they would sound I think think think to tickle
tickle
hearts.